today we will be comparing and
contrasting camp plants to c4 plants we
will start with the c4 plant c4 means
that the plant uses four carbon
molecules instead of three c4 plants use
the carbon fixation pathway the carbon
fixation pathway is a reaction that
takes inorganic carbon and produces
organic compounds from it now we will
demonstrate this process first a carbon
dioxide is bound to a PEP inside the
mesophyll cell this makes the four
carbon compound then the four carbon
compound is shuttled to the bundle sheet
third is decarboxylated meaning the c4
compound is broken up into four
different carbons that is the carbon
fixation pathway now it's time to
explain cam plants cam stands for cross
halation acid metabolism which is a
complex carbon fixation pathway let's
explain this process now first of all
the stoma of Pam plants are only open at
night because they normally reside in
dry sunny places during the night time
the plant obtains its co2 and turns it
into a four carbon acid Valley then
during the day the plant releases the
co2 this provides the enzyme resist
Rubisco with a high concentration of co2
all during this daytime process the
stomata are closed in order to reduce
water loss through evapo transpiration
now let's compare the two plants and
show some examples
our first difference is that cam plants
close their stomata during the day
whereas c4 plants only have their
stomata closed partly another difference
is that c4 plants originated in tropical
areas whereas cam plants originated in
deserts our last difference is that cam
plants
retain a lot more water than c4 plants
now here are some examples of each for
c4 plants we have crabgrass
corn sugarcane and sorghum for camp
plants we have Samsa Boreas pineapples
euphoria's and crassula or Kenta thank
you for watching our presentation